Adding wordle workshop - first version (#154)
CodeYourFuture/CYF-Workshops: wordle/readme.md

# Wordle CLI Workshop

This is a workshop where we, as a class, build a Wordle CLI clone in Node JS.

## Learning Objectives

```objectives

> - [ ] Give trainees the experience of building a fully playable game from scratch, starting with nothing but an idea

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Build a fully playable game from scratch, starting with nothing but an idea
```

> - [ ] Give trainees some understanding of how to find and use NPM dependencies in a project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Locate and make use of NPM dependencies in a project
```

> - [ ] Walk trainees through the process of breaking down a high-level idea into smaller, less intimidating bits of functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Step through the process of breaking down a high-level idea into smaller, manageable units of functionality
```

> - [ ] Inspire trainees to take their own ideas and build something cool with whatever skills they have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Get inspired to take ideas and build something cool
```

```

## Requirements

- Split the cohort into groups of 3 to 4 people

> - Introduction slides: https://barath-cyf.netlify.app/wordle/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: From playing the game itself on NY Times they'll build sufficient intuition to tackle this problem and the slides won't add anything that they can't learn from playing the game itself.

- Ensure the class understands the rules of the game first
- Then we start building out our Wordle CLI clone from scratch
    - Referencing steps from this README: https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/wordle-clone-example#readme (this example solution can be given to the trainees after the session has finished)
    - Steps 1 & 2 can be done together as a class. All the code here should be sourced from the trainees themselves - this is their implementation. However, the volunteer who is running the workshop can ensure the high-level problem is broken down into these smaller functions: getRandomWord, getGuess and showWordWithHighlights
    - Step 3 (getRandomWord) can be done in groups
    - Step 4 (getGuess) can be done in groups - but it might be useful for a volunteer to suggest which NPM dependency we could use
    - Step 5 (showWordWithHighlights) can be done in groups - again, we can suggest which NPM dependency to use
    - Step 6 (improving the user experience) could possibly be done as a class together

> - Back to the slides (https://barath-cyf.netlify.app/wordle/), we can wrap up the session by suggesting some stretch ideas, and again emphasizing the power of trainee ideas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Discussion and reflection is great but you don't need the slides for this

## Acceptance Criteria

> - I have a working Wordle CLI game which I can play

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Given_ the user starts a new Wordle game
_When_ the app is initialized
_Then_ a random 5 letter word should be selected as the target word

_Given_ the target word has been selected
_When_ the user enters a 5 letter guess
_Then_ the guess should be validated
_And_ each letter should be marked as green, yellow or gray based on whether it matches the target word

_Given_ a valid 5 letter guess has been entered
_When_ the guess does not match the target word
_Then_ each letter should be marked as follows:
- Green if the letter is in the correct position
- Yellow if the letter is in the target but not in the correct position
- Gray if the letter is not in the target word

_Given_ a guess has been submitted
_When_ the guess matches the target word
_Then_ a message should indicate the user has won the game

_Given_ guesses have been submitted
_When_ the user reaches 6 guesses without matching the target word
_Then_ a message should indicate the user has lost and show the target word
```

Reviewer: @moneyinthesky A lot of the curriculum has moved towards more formal Given/When/Then style acceptance criteria and it would be a good opportunity to use them here. I just generated these using Claude so feel free to tweak them as necessary - I also suggest hoisting these criteria further up in the readme

> - I have a working Wordle CLI game which I can play
> - I understand the code I have written

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I suggest removing 1. as the other suggestions make this more specific. 2. I suggest removing because it isn't easily measurable and is always a top-level goal with anything they create.

> - I understand what a dependency is in Node and how to install and use them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This is more of a learning objective and is covered at the top.
